# Final Project: 2030 Land Cover of Los Angeles

**10 May 2023**

This project created a web map to visualize the predicted land cover map of Los Angeles in 2030 
for the research of potential vegetation degradation in Los Angeles City. 

To complete the project, the following steps were achieved:

1. To create a tif of land cover map of Los Angeles City in 2030 using GeoSOS-FLUS remote sensing software.
2. To run a script to convert the derived tif images into a set of map tiles that can be used
   with a web map.
3. To run a script to upload the generated map tiles to Google Cloud Storage bucket.
4. To establish a web map that represent the predicted land cover of Los Angeles City in 2030.

**The web map could be used by urban planners and environmental conservationists to explore the predictions and mitigate the potential urban problems.** 


----------------

## Instructions

The issue of vegetation degradation due to urban growth in Los Angeles is a major environmental concern. 
Los Angeles is a rapidly growing city, and as it expands, it is encroaching on natural areas and causing 
the shrink of vegetations especially tropical and sub-tropical grasslands and shrublands. This expansion 
of urban built-up area leads to the destruction and fragmentation of these natural habitats, which can 
have significant negative impacts on the local ecosystem and biodiversity.

The data of this project was from my output of capstone project, which is the tif image of predicted land 
cover of Los Angeles in 2030 with a resolution of 30m, it was generated by the markov-chain cellular automata model 
in the Future Land Use Simulation Model Software (GeoSOS-FLUS). Based on the land cover data of Los Angeles originally 
from the measurement of United States Geographical Survey in 2010 and 2020. And the creation of the webmap, first the 
tif image of la land cover of 2030 in a resolution of 30 m was converted into a set of map tiles that can be used with 
a web map by gdal Geospatial Data Abstraction Library to the map tile in a zoom level of 10 to 12.
And then the established map tile was uploaded to google cloud storage bucket of the project so they can be accessed by 
the web map applicationand using the leaflet mapping library, the maptile of the predicted land cover data could be displayed in the webmap.  

The mapping library could be configured to load the maptiles from the Google Cloud Storage bucket by specifying the URL pattern of the maptiles. 
The URL pattern should include placeholders for the tile coordinates including x, y, and zoom level that the mapping library will fill in 
dynamically to request the appropriate maptiles from the bucket.


The web map looks like this:

There will be boxes showing the information of land cover types of different cells in the study area.
 The web map could be used by urban planners or environmental conservationists to explore the alternations 
of land cover in LA until 2030 and to mitigate the vegetation degradation problem in a circumstances of urban expansion.